So. Yes, session is being recorded.
Go ahead please. Yeah, thank you.
So I'm gonna call canzoneri.
I'm the idea student coordinator for
this year and I'm just going to talk for
about 5 minutes about this competition.
We're having the idea competition in this
competition is inspired by the accessibility
for Ontarians with the Disability Act,
which will talk about a little bit more.
But the goal of this act is to make Ontario
the most accessible province by 2025.
So what is this competition?
The innovative designs for enhancing
accessibility competition is an event aimed
to inspire students to create innovative
and effective ideas that can resolve
accessibility barriers in our community.
An example of this simple one could be
for someone who uses a wheelchair ramp,
could help eliminate an accessibility
barrier for them to get into a
building that only has stairs.
Uhm, you can do this presentation or
this competition as a group alone.
You can be undergraduate graduate
students full time part time
here for one semester here.
For both it's open to any Windsor or student
who's willing to submit and present an idea.
And there's some prizes that
we'll talk about in a bit too.
But the basics of this competition you
should create an idea that addresses one
or several barriers to accessibility,
and these are identified in the act.
So I'm just going to talk about
these barriers quickly.
And I don't know if this is going to
be a new concept for most people,
so if this is a confusing or
you just need more examples,
I'm always available to help explain
that more, but we'll just do quickly,
so there's attitudinal barriers
and that could be, for example,
if you make someone feel like you're
doing them this huge favor just by
providing their basic accommodations,
which is the bare minimum not being
attitudinal barrier organizational
or systemic,
it could be if a meeting was only
conducted in person and you couldn't get.
Get that information there
be systemic barrier.
Architectural or physical.
That's when we think about a lot of
times stuff not fitting wheelchairs.
Using elevators, that kind of stuff.
There's information or
communication barriers.
And for example,
this could be if you have a vision,
disability and a document has
really poor color contrast or a
font making it difficult to read,
that would be a barrier.
And then there's technological barriers.
An example of this could be if you use a
screen reader to read documents to you,
but the document is not formatted
properly to work with the screen.
Reader that is a barrier and there's more
information about these on our website again,
and I'm always happy to help explain
them more if you shoot me an email.
I look include that at the end,
but these are just the basics
of the barriers,
so why should you do this
competition students?
In the past I've actually used
this competition to develop
graduate level research thesis or gone
on to actually create the idea they
brainstormed for this competition.
So someone right now I believe who won
three years ago is in a paid position,
with the university implementing their idea.
That one in this competition
a few years back.
So it's really wonderful for that.
But it's also great to demonstrate
community involvement.
By showing that you connect with
and are being creative to assist
with a vulnerable population.
Whether you're part of the
disability community or not,
it's really good to get involved this way,
and so we do have prizes like I
mentioned and it is important to
note two things that this money.
If so, you get first place and you work
in a group you don't each get $500.
The whole group gets 500 to share.
And it's also important to note that
because of just rules and regulations,
we can't give you like a cheque
or direct deposit.
We have to put it on your UWin card,
which can be used for a ton of things.
But if you don't use the
money when you graduate,
you do get that money back
so you do get the money.
It just has to be in a different form.
So an example of an idea that
did well in the past is a haptic
awareness device addresses information
communication technology barriers,
and this device would be somewhat for
someone with a vision disability,
and it helps them detect their surroundings.
How close people are with direction.
They're going that kind of stuff
and it vibrates to let the person
with the vision disability know
that information and it works off
of cell phone or Bluetooth devices
connecting to other people around.
You also has the potential to
go even further.
As vehicles,
a lot of Times Now have Bluetooth,
so that could help users understand
where cars are in relation to them.
But that's just one that did well in
the past to kind of get you an idea of
how much detail you have to go into.
So how to enter you address or you think
of an idea that addresses a barrier?
Feel free to collaborate with your community,
get inspiration from people you
know from disabled people from
anyone that you think could have
some assistance with accessibility.
This is an awesome way.
To really get genuine inspiration and
then you have to create a presentation.
Most people do it with PowerPoint
and you showcase your ideas and
submit it to me at idea@uwindsor.ca.
And the timeline for these competition.
It opened November 1st.
It closes January 28th and the judging panel,
which will be virtual is February 10th.
So over the winter break over the
holidays if you find yourself with
a little extra time on your hands,
I really encourage you to start
brainstorming.
I'm available all winter break for help.
I'm allowed to help every single
step of the way
and encouraged to do so.
So if if you want to set up a meeting
over winter break just to brainstorm even,
I think that's a wonderful time.
It is important to note that you don't
actually have to create the physical idea,
you just have to present the
idea if that makes sense.
So you can create a prototype
if that helps you explain it,
but you you do not have to at all.
So thank you for letting me
take a bit of your class time.
I will send your professor this
PowerPoint along with my email and
the website with tons of information.
Also YouTube video there for those who
need a bit more clarification and I won't.
I probably won't take questions
just to save time,
but I'll put my email in the
chat really quick,
so anyone who has questions
can feel free to email me.
Great, any question? I mean you can
ask Nicole anybody has any questions?
So. Since there is no question,
thank you so much Nicole.
I just wanted to. Uh,
show you something interesting
about the accessibility of.
That's why actually I became
interested in this topic.
So I mean, recently if you I mean
work with the Microsoft Word it added.
I mean it added a.
Uh, I mean plugin to?
I mean to your document basically
tries to check the accessibility
of your document so it's a plug-in.
I mean it tries to.
Improve the accessibility of your
document or I mean give you some hints
to fix your document for this purpose,
and this is very interesting to me.
Yeah, it's a very cool new
addition and it it's very useful.
'cause like I said with the technology,
sometimes color contrast or formatting
can really make it difficult for someone
to get that information exactly.
Yes, yeah.
OK, thank you so much so and
hopefully a student that you
try to come up with some ideas.
Uh, participate in this competition.
Yeah, it's not. It's not for us.
Yeah, we cannot just.
No worries, OK. Thank you so much.
Have a good day. Take care too.
OK. So now we can. Start our presentation.
So share my screen.
OK. Anybody has any question about uh?
Uh, anything related to the course.
Or anything related to the idea that
they Nicole presented the accessibility.
Ah yes Danielle. Actually,
I'm going to discuss about that.
Yes, we extend the lab 11
and you can ask your GA.
To open a new attempt for you.
No worries, so let's start.
Uh. Basically today we are going to finish
the topic about a network IPC we try.
I try my best to recover most of the topics.
So again, for those who are not available,
I mean in the last lecture.
This is a great movie by Roman Polanski
knife in the life in the water.
It's a pretty old I mean movie,
but uh, it's a very interesting.
And I mean one of the.
Greatest movie by Roman Polanski.
Uh, it's a story of two.
I mean three. I mean characters.
12 Mr I mean. Uh.
Kind of, I mean two men.
They are not parent or child,
but one of them are.
I mean a young and one of them is a I mean
adult person and I put this movie here
just to I mean motivate the idea that.
Uh, in the IPC we usually, uh.
I mean most of the cases we discussed.
The communication between the parent
and the child and how they can
communicate through file through
pipe or other mechanism signaling.
But in the network IPC,
two processes that have no I mean
hierarchy or no relationship.
They can communicate through the network.
So this is very similar to.
I mean, uh, the theme in this in this movie.
Before I start the network,
IPC using the TCP.
We extended the submissions for
the week 11 by one more week.
So basically the lab 11 topics
is a little bit related to the
I mean topic of today.
So you may have some problems.
I mean, doing the lab because we are
going to cover some topics today.
And also, uh,
we have one more extra week without any
assignments, so I was thinking that.
I mean I can extend this for another week.
Also about the lab or so,
it is lab eight, sorry, lab08.
As I promised, we remarked lab aids,
and as you can see here,
I make an announcement and you can see that,
uh, based on the new breakdown,
most of the student could recover some marks.
So, uh, based on.
We break, we have a new breakdown.
10% twenty percent, 20%, and 20%.
And if you write a program and it
is built and compiled correctly,
we give you 10%. Uh, if, uh, the part that.
you have to generate a new program.
And you have to build that program.
If you do it successfully,
you get another 12%.
If you could run that program that you
generated, you get another 20% and etc.
So based on this new breakdown, uh?
Uh, you can have.
I mean, you could recover some partial marks.
So please check your mark about
the lab 8 and also we'll release
the lab 9 Marks and lecture 9.
Unfortunately, there are huge numbers.
Number of academic integrity.
Academic.
Integrity meaning that, uh, about the lab 9.
Meaning that most of the codes are copy.
From I mean another student.
Or there are copy from the same source?
I mean if you look it up in the Internet.
So honestly, this is a very serious
issue in Academy and also I mean,
uh, it's kind of upsetting.
Uhm?
So even if you cannot do a lab,
the best way is that I mean go.
I mean coming in the office hour.
Uh,
we can work together or you can
attend the lab sections to ask
help from the lab instructors.
And,
uh.
Or you can communicate with me
to ask for more extension.
At least you are trying to do it yourself.
I mean it's not a good practice.
I mean honestly, it's kind of.
Other kind of actually it is a very bad,
uh, and there is serious issue if
you just simply copy from another
student's work or from Internet.
So you don't have the learning
experience and also it's.
It's against the integrity of, I mean.
Your work. So. This is very serious and.
For those that who did, I mean this mistake.
I mean, making made this mistake.
Uh, we left the submission unmarked.
And also we just put a flag
on the name of that student.
For the next, uh, I mean time so.
This is not a good thing.
I mean honestly, this is very upsetting.
Hopefully I mean in the next
series of lab you tried to do.
Your best and uh.
I mean.
Yeah.
So let's continue with the
Chapter 16 network IPC.
We already said that a network
manager part of the kernel is
responsible to provide a communication
between two computers and the
processes inside these computers.
So we said that as long as two computers,
or more than two computers are connected
with the connection physical connection,
whether it's a wired or wireless,
we are able to provide communication between
the processes inside these computers.
So we have some question in the chat.
So Mason says it can.
We can please do the same for lab 9.
You mean that we tried to do to follow
the same breakdown for the Lab 9 so.
We already did that actually for
the lab 9 we came up with
a new breakdown and then the
markers tried to follow the same.
As we did in the lab 8.
Uh, Michelle says that.
How do you differentiate between the
copying code and going on Internet?
Uh.
So for instance, uh, there are
some samples in the Internet,
so if you basically Michelle says that.
How do you differentiate between copying
a code or going on Internet learning
about a certain way to solve the problem?
And implementing that basically,
uh, in the Internet there are some
samples that you can refer to them
in order to know how I mean the
different parts of the lab can be done.
Uh, but uh, if you just simply, uh,
unfortunately I cannot say, fortunately,
or unfortunately I don't know.
I mean, I don't have any polarity again.
I mean about this idea,
but there are some websites
that you can pay to them.
And they do the, uh, programming for you.
And they released the answer
for all other to the public.
So, uh, all the students can go there and
use the same code for their submission.
So I think one of them is called chegg.
I think the website is called chegg.
I don't know, it's I'm I'm right or not,
but that's the reason.
So basically one student goes to
this website, pay $20 for instance.
And then ask them to write the
code for do the coding and they
release the answer public and.
All these students actually try to use
the same answer for this submission.
This is the way that I mean we can see that.
I mean there is multiple copies
of the same code.
Again, I mean going to the Internet,
Googling and trying to understand
how to solve the problem.
That's OK as long as you provide
a reference to that source.
But a using the same code line by line,
character by character. It's not.
It's a instance of plagiarism.
OK, anything else?
OK, let's continue so. We said that,
uh, one of the network protocol, uh,
that we are using is called TCP IP.
Uh, which is responsible
to provide the language,
the order, and different, uh,
I mean aspect of the communication
between multiple computers in
a network of the computer.
Uh, and we said that the naming
is because that I mean, uh,
in the adressing layer of this protocol
we have IP address in protocol.
And in the transport layer of the protocol
we have two types of communications,
connectionless and connection oriented.
The connection less was UDP.
We discussed this the client,
I mean the sender part and the receiver
part of the UDP and then we started
the second type of communication,
connection oriented which is very
similar to a phone call and called
Transmission control protocol or TCP.
Because most of the communication
in the transport layer in the
TCP IP protocol is of type TCP.
That's why they picked these two.
I mean names as the general name
for this type of network protocol.
So we already started a communication of
type TCP in the TCP, just as a reminder.
We have to first create a connection.
In order to make sure that the other
part of the communication is alive
and ready to receive the message.
Also,
this type of communication
is an order communication,
meaning that when you provide
the communication,
the messages are transferred in order.
Even in the target.
If the a different part of the message
is arrived, I mean sooner or later,
for instance, you may receive you first.
Or next and then hide.
Next,
and etc.
In the transport layer of
the TCP IP protocol.
These I mean mixed packets of the
message gonna be reordered in order
to transfer the correct order of
the messages to the main process.
So it's going to be again,
I mean becomes an ordered
message when it is going to be
received by the process.
The second, the third property of this
communication, is the reliability,
meaning that you are guaranteed
that your message is going to be
received by the receiver because.
You try to communicate after making sure
that the connection is provided between
the pair of communicate computers.
So before you start sending the message,
you have to make a connection and
based on this connection you can
start a reliable message passing.
And the only disadvantage of this
type of communication is the overhead
of making a connection in UDP.
You just simply send your message.
You don't care whether there is a
receiver gonna receive it or no,
but in the TCP you have to dial the receiver,
you have to make sure that there is a
connection and then send the message.
So this connection is an overhead
for your communication.
So.
Besides the technological differences between
the UDP and the TCP type of communication,
there is another debate which would
set philosophical debate. In the UDP.
Any process inside the computer
at anytime can send a message to
another process in another computer,
as long as the address of the receiver is a,
I mean mentioned by the sender.
So any process can initiate a communication.
At anytime and there is no I mean hierarchy.
Uh, A contact B at any time
and later we can contact A.
Uh, however, in TCP type of communication,
most of the time,
again in TCP anybody can communicate,
connect with another one.
Uh, but most of the time in TCP.
One end of the communication
is a passive process.
Meaning that that process
never initiate a call.
That process always sits and snips and
waiting for others to call that process.
And all the replies whenever there is a risk.
I mean call from other processes.
So this passive process is
usually called this server because
usually it's a single process.
Among all the computers,
among all the processes is only one
process inside one computer that is
waiting for others to call that process.
Usually we call it the server,
that's why the only singular.
I mean process and the idea is that
this process receives a call and try
to provide a service to the colleague.
Sorry to the caller.
So basically,
other processes make a call
and they request something,
and then this process.
This server wakes up and try to
provide a service to the caller.
So that's the main scenario in
the TCP IP protocol, a TCP IP,
sorry in the TCP type of communication.
But again, this is the most, uh, I mean.
Commonly used a scenario.
You can provide a TCP connection between
any process with another process,
as long as these processes have the
address and the port of each other.
But mostly we used TCP for a.
One process as this server and other
processes as the clients of that server.
So in the real world,
this scenario is very similar
to a call center.
So for instance,
when you are a customer or when your
client or the company or store and
you have a problem with that product,
you try to communicate with the customer
service of that company or the other store.
So the company has a center
called call Center.
They are waiting for your call or
for the customers call and you as a
client called that center to explain
your problem and they try to provide
the service or solve your problem.
That's why in this scenario we
usually have a client or more
than one client community trying
to communicate with this server.
So we don't have. Sender anymore,
I mean, at a philosophical
or any Symantec terminology.
For that you have a client and on on
the other end we have at least server.
So we don't call it a receiver anymore.
Uh, we called this server that is
waiting for the clients called.
We already said that for the TCP
communication at the clients,
these are the main steps to be
programmed inside the process.
Very similar to UDP.
You have to ask a socket from the kernel.
You can optionally bind
your address to the circuit.
Or you can leave it to the
Colonel to do that for you.
And then given the address of the server,
uh, it's very similar to the
phone number of the call center.
You already know what is the phone
number of the call Center for a company,
and then you will start to dial that number.
In our, uh, I mean a topic you
are trying to make a connection.
And if somebody on the other hand of
the communication pick up your phone,
your call or answered your connection, then.
You're connected and you can
start communicating.
This is the main difference between
the TCP and UDP in the UDP.
You don't have to make a connection
and then it stopped working right away.
You can send your message by in
the TCP you have first.
Connect make a connection.
Dial the address.
I mean a kind of and then I
start communication.
So. On Monday, with did
these steps 123 up until 4.
Oh, we added the program and then before
communication we try to send a message.
We try to connect to the server.
But we faced an error.
And we said that because there
is no server on the other end,
that's why we receive an error when
we wanted to connect to this server.
So as a result,
if there is no connection,
we cannot go to the next step to
which is starting sending a message
or communicating with the server.
So now we have to first fix this problem.
We have to write a server process
and then run it on a computer and
then make a connection between
the clients and the server.
So. We stopped at the client.
We moved to this server.
We try to write a program for the
server and then when it is up
ready to pick up your connection,
then are the client can start communicating.
So. Let's see what are the tasks that,
as a programmer, we have to write in our
program in order to build these server
process for TCP type of communication.
These steps, as you can see here,
is very similar to the UDP.
As long as you have to create a socket.
You have to bind the address to the socket,
so because this is the part of
the connection that receives your
messages or receives your call,
you have to bind an address.
So this is a mandatory part.
Because on a knowing this address
the clients can connect to you.
But fun, this is stab.
Onward this these are the
differences of the TCP from UDP.
So in TCP you have to tell the kernel that.
Now I'm ready to take the clients call.
So this is one step.
After that you wait for a call from
the client. When there is a call,
you pick up or accept the clients
call or connection request.
And you check the clients address.
If the client address is the one
that you want to do a communication,
then you accept the call and after
that you start communicating.
So these steps,
these three steps are the difference.
For this TCP part of the server.
And the UDP a for the receiver.
So in the TCP the server should
wait for the clients called.
Uh, one by one accept the call.
And then start communicating with the client
that the call is accepted for that client.
It is very similar to a call center.
Imagine that you're working
for a call center.
You go to a room,
you tell your supervisor that
now I'm ready to take the call.
You're up behind your computer.
You start receiving the calls
from the customers and then you
start talking to the customer.
So let's start writing the
program for this server.
The first step is creating a socket,
so I think most of you now are.
I mean kind of professional
with creating a socket.
For UDP and for TCP,
whether you are sending the message
or you're receiving a message,
you have to create a socket.
So in the TCP IP protocol
we need to include these two
header files you already saw
these two other files and four.
Networking site.
Sorry. Class yes. Do you know there
is a lab person? What's his name?
Your technician. Mature woman
no. I saw him sometimes
here but no, not that.
Here. Yes you can. You can leave it
here and then I I will send a message
to him that there is a message for him.
Sorry. Sorry guys, uh so. Uh.
Yes, we were here.
So for network IPC we need to
add the this header file socket.
A header file. And then, uh.
You have to tell the what type of
socket you want from the kernel,
so this is the network protocol.
The TCP IP address family
of the Internet Protocol.
And then the only difference with
the UDP is that you have to define.
You need a connectionless or connection
oriented type of communication.
So the streaming that you are trying to
ask is socket of type connection oriented.
And then if you pass 0,
the kernel provides the default transport.
A implementation of the communication.
Which is TCP for connection oriented.
Then, uh, you simply call
the system called socket,
and it returns a socket descriptor.
We said that it's very
similar to file descriptor.
And using this socket descriptor you a.
Uh, can communicate,
or in the network platform.
The second a step off the server processes
that binding the address to that socket.
So which is a mandatory part of this server?
So basically, uh, you need to.
No, the address the IP
address of the host computer.
Uh, we already said that there are
different ways to know what is the
IP address of the computer that
you want to run the server process.
So one of them is just an S look up.
That codes a host name.
Or you can simply, pink, uh, uh.
The seven name Princess CS dot U Windsor.
Dot CA. Uh, this way actually
it map the name of a machine or
a computer to its IP address.
And then, uh, in this computer with this
IP there are millions of processes you
have to tell the kernel that or what is.
You your process is this server,
your process is going to use this circuit.
So in order to do that you have
to specify a number greater than
this number as a port number.
And we already said that the
pair of IP port distinguishes one
process among all the processes.
In all the computers all around the world.
So it's a unique address protocol.
To identify one process.
And then you have to call the bond
system called in order to bind your
socket or with the IP port address.
And after that you have a
bonded socket with an address.
Use a tell all the other processes that
are in this computer with this IP.
And with this port number.
I am ready to take your call.
So in order to tell the your kernel that
you are ready to take the clients, call.
Uh, there is a command called Listen.
So you see here,
this is the main difference with the UDP.
Here this process should tell the
kernel that I am ready to pick up
the calls from the clients,
so this is the system call in
the same header file listen.
It needs the socket descriptor.
And also it needs a number called backlog.
It returns 0 if your socket
is going to receive the calls.
It returns many small meaning
that the kernel cannot provide
any calls from the client to you.
If some problem happens,
but the main important part
is is the backlog.
If you look it up in the Internet.
Backlog means that there is an
accumulation of uncompleted
tasks that you want to address.
These tasks later, 1 by 1.
So what's the purpose of this, uh, argument?
Traditionally. In a real world.
Uh, even you?
I mean, you are the I mean your
generation knows this topic thing.
But if you don't remember that,
you can ask your parents, actually,
uh, when we had a phone call,
we had to only provide one call at a time.
If somebody wanted to,
I mean,
if two persons wants to communicate with,
for instance you.
You can only pick one call and the
old other calls gonna be rejected and
they gonna receive a busy signal.
So in the old phone call communication,
only one call can be answered and
all the other receives a busy signal
or they're going to be rejected.
But in the modern, uh, technology.
Uh,
you are able to put the correct
call on hold and you are able
to answer the other calls.
Or I,
I'm pretty sure that most of you
experienced that if you call
some call centers in the for a
company or phrase store,
you receive an automatic answer
that you are going to put in a
queue and it gives you a time.
For instance, it says that.
They you may waited for five
minutes and after five minutes
your call gonna be answered.
So in a modern communication,
uh,
you have the opportunity to be to
stay in a queue and wait up until
the server answers your call.
So this is the same idea here.
Basically the process is the
server tells the kernel that I'm
ready to receive the calls from
the clients up until a number.
For instance, you're fired,
meaning that please create
a queue of five spots,
and if I receive up until five calls,
put them in a queue and I try my best
to answer these clients one by one.
If.
There are huge amounts of calls more than,
for instance 5 calls.
All the other calls gonna be rejected.
So as long as the queue is full,
all the other calls from the
clients can never rejected.
You can increase the size of this
backlog or the Q NAMI queue size.
I mean, in order to accept more clients,
it depends on the workload of your.
I mean this server process.
And, uh, this way you
are accepting more calls.
As a result,
you have to do more tasks for
these calls that you receive.
So after this system call.
You tell us here is the, uh, I mean sketch.
So basically you tell the kernel
that you need a queue of,
for instance, five spot.
And after this your socket.
Uh, inside the kernel receives
the call from the clients and then
put the clients call in a cube.
Based on Feefo first call, first out.
The next step is that now the cost is
queued in a socket inside the kernel.
Then you can accept the clients call 1 by 1.
So how do you ask the Colonel that
I'm ready to pick up the first call?
I'm ready to pick up the second call and etc.
You have to call a system called accept.
In the same header file.
Accept needs the socket
descriptor and an empty data
structure for the client address.
You have to simply define an an
empty variable socket address.
You pass it in the argument
of this system called.
And what happens is that the
kernel gives you the connection
for the first client school and
then puts the address of that
client in the empty variable that
you provided to the system called.
So in terms of the coding, uh, usually in.
While loop forever,
meaning that this is the main task
of this server process forever,
it just receives the call.
Try to pick up the call and stop
communicating. So. Forever.
It accepts meaning that the server
wants to pick up the first call,
second call and etc.
And here is the empty variable
as of type socket address,
they cannot provide the address
of the client in this variable.
And then. It returns. The number.
So let's back to the system call.
The return type of the accept is
is socket descriptor if it is OK,
otherwise minus one.
I will discuss this later
but just remember that.
The access the access system called returns.
A - 1 if the error happens
or another socket descriptor,
and I will discuss why the return
is another socket descriptor
because we already have a socket
descriptor for this server.
Why we need a new one?
But anyways, if it is successful,
you end up with a the connection with
the client and now you are ready
to communicate with each other.
So.
Again at this moment.
That your call is accepted by
the server you are connected.
I mean, uh at the at both
end of the connection.
And then you can send or
receive messages in this
channel in this communication.
So before, uh. Explaining how we
can send or receive the message is
just very similar to the lab 11.
Just make sure that we can make a connection.
I'm going to show you. An example run.
And here is the picture of that,
but I'm going to show you the actual.
Server.
OK. So let's see the client part.
So in the client part,
as you can see here again,
I mean we need a socket of type.
A socket is streaming that we need a
connection oriented type of connection.
And we check whether we have a socket.
And then at the binding address in the
client is not necessary, so we leave it for.
The cannot do that for us.
We have to know what is the IP address
of the computer for the server process.
And then what is the port number
of the server process? And, uh,
we put it in this data structure, socket,
address Internet and then we do the connect.
So we already discussed this system called
in the client part of the communication.
So basically you are
dialing the number connect.
For for your uh, socket descriptor,
and this is the server address.
It is very similar to dialing a number.
And if you're connected successfully,
the result going to be non zero and then you
can start sending or receiving messages.
But for now,
we just wanted to make sure that
we are connected,
so I'm going to comment all these lines.
Dan. In, let's see this server a code.
In the server we are telling the kernel that
again we are going to do a communication
of type connection oriented TCP IP.
You asked a socket of this type
very similar to the client part.
But here you have to this mandatory.
You have to bind an address IP of
your computer and the port number.
And then bind your socket with this address.
And then you have to tell the
kernel that you're ready to receive
the call up until five calls.
So you need a queue of size 5.
And if it is successful,
it is a non zero.
And then after this Q is given
to you for your calls in a while
loop you will start accepting
or picking up the client call.
So you are telling the kernel that
I'm accepting the call at this socket.
And they cannot provide the address
of the client by empty address.
I'm saying that you can simply define
an empty variable socket address.
And pass it to the system called
accept and they cannot provide
the address for the client.
And if the return is non negative,
meaning that you're connected to that client.
So just to make sure that what is the.
IP of this.
Computer. And as the cop
has name. So here is the IP.
So it is 51, so I have to change the.
IP off the server.
Again, uh, one of the things that
we discussed was that hard coding.
The IP and port inside the
program has this problem,
so each time you have to check whether
the IP is correct or not and change
your program and build it again.
Instead of a better programming
would be just a.
I mean give the IP and the address
as an argument to your program,
or you can put it inside
the file and read that file.
So you see here each time I
have to check the IP and change
it inside my code and.
And then build it again.
And also we have to check the
client part as well because client
gonna be connected to this server.
So you see here I have to change the.
Server address in the client part
as well the port number. And then,
uh, build a client part as well.
So now I'm going to,
uh, run the server.
So you see here the server has
the socket descriptor of #3.
And it is right now.
Rounded to this address.
And today to this IP address and
to this port number we already say
said that why they are not looking
like the one inside the program.
And now let's, uh,
run some client part.
Ah, I just wanted to.
Open two clients.
So this is the first client.
And I'm going to run another client.
This is the second,
so I I open two terminals.
I wanna run the one client
here and also one client here.
So if I start this one you see here,
the client says that I request
or dial the number to this.
Put this IP port.
You see the exact IP port is here by port.
And when I press the enter,
a client is connected to that one.
So you see here, the server
receives the call from this client.
So inside the client program
I didn't provide any address,
so I leave it to the kernel to
provide the IP port out the client,
but inside the client inside the server.
Wanted to show what is the IP,
port number of the client
that is connecting to me.
So here is the IP port of the client.
So in the second client and I,
I'm going to do the second client you see,
this is the second client.
Connected with another IP and another port.
So now you can see that there are
two clients, each one is once
again the first one. Another time.
See it's run off with the first client.
The IP is the same,
but the port gonna be changed
because each time they cannot gonna
give a random port to the client.
The second terminal again,
you see here. Say.
So now we, uh, make sure that at
least the clients can connect to the
server and this server can pick up
the phone call from the clients and
become connected to the clients.
So. Now that we make sure that,
uh, they can be connected,
the next step is that in the client part.
The client is connected.
The client can start communicating.
And in the server.
Or we accept the call we are
connected to the client and the
server can start communicating 2.
So now we can in the both
client and the server part
we can start communicating.
So before I explain the communication
after the connection, any question.
There is no question.
OK, Daniel says. So far so good.
I saw his OK, Vivian.
So although you're listening,
but I'm not sure all the
other students are listening.
As a result, I need all of
you to send me feedback.
OK, these are distant analysts and
it made sounds off Victor Danielle.
So we have one question here.
Ethan says in the first
request from the client you
had a different IP address.
That's an interesting question.
I will explain that, yeah. So.
We have 36 students in the class,
but I receive only I
think about 10 emojis so.
Other students we are
waiting for you wake up.
Night is still in the bath. Matthew serraj.
So I have no choice other than
that I mean other than calling
this student by name, I think.
So we have. Yeah we have you on.
As an example. We have Randy.
OK, so one interesting question by a Ethan,
UM, basically let's back to our, uh, run.
Ethan says that in the first call here.
The IP is totally different from the others.
So first of all you can see that
because I'm running all these three
processes inside the same machine,
these schools machine you can see
that the IP of the clients and the
IP of the server is all the same.
Except case, as you can see here, this is
the IP of the machine from the client.
Also this is the IP of the
machine for this server.
And all these two clients have the
same IP and the reason is very clear
because they are inside the same
machine and the machine has only one IP.
But this one, uh?
The first one,
the first call from the client.
Why the IP is different?
There are different reasons for that.
One of the immediate reason is that.
Uh, because, uh.
The server machine may have
different Ethernet card or different
ways of physical connection.
You are able to, for instance,
have two Ethernet cord.
Also,
you can have a wireless connection,
so this way your machine can
connect to the network of computers
by three physical connections.
When you're leaving the connection
to the server to the kernel, your.
Asking the kernel that which
connection is the best way or
the available connection.
So This is why I mean,
when you leave it to the kernel,
they cannot decide which physical
connection is the best at the
current time for your process.
So at this time you can see that
the kernel of the client uses
another physical connection to
send the message from the client.
And each physical connection
has its own address.
So basically,
if you have a free a Ethernet
cord network cord,
you're gonna have three IP addresses.
And you are connected by
three physical connections.
So if you leave it to the kernel,
the kernel decides on which
physical connection is the best
way at the moment and use that
connection for your message.
That's why sometimes you see.
Different IP addresses for the same machine.
Again,
you can't come no more about this
in the computer network course.
This is one answer.
There are different other answers,
but yeah.
So we have a.
Yeah, I success that the same,
uh, same, uh. I mean it's not
an issue actually, but same.
Different IP address. He saw that.
Oh, uh, sometimes if you receive zero,
whether it's in the port
number or in the IP number.
I actually I receive sometimes zero.
In both cases I have no idea why.
The others for the IP and the port.
Sometimes it is 0.
Uh, you, I don't know the answer.
It's better to ask this question from the
instructor of the Computer network course.
I saw that, uh, I mean before.
Yes, sometimes when you run the first
connection in the IP0 and the port is
also zero for the port zero it it is.
It makes sense. Very rare but for
the IP0 I don't know the answer.
It's better to ask a.
I don't know.
Yeah.
Uh, about the loop back address.
The others 127 zero 01.
Uh, yes let me, uh, this I.
I will explain that if we have time so they
look back adversely that specific address.
120 seven 001. I will explain that
if you have time. Or next week.
But keep that question in my yes,
keep that question. Uh, and we I try
to find the time for that address.
So let's continue and then yeah.
So. Now let's communicate.
Now we have the live connection
between the client and the server,
let's communicate.
So the communication is very simple.
Basically for sending the information
whether it's from the server or
whether it's from the client,
it doesn't matter.
You can use this send system
called using the socket descriptor.
After receiving a message,
you can use this system called receive
a socket descriptor and actually you are
able to use the write and read system calls.
On the socket descriptor,
as we said,
socket descriptor is implemented
very similar to the file descriptor.
And we already said that any device
in a Unix operating system is a file.
So you can read or write from a device
here the Devices Network device,
so you can write or read from right to
it network or read from the network
by using the socket descriptor.
Or you can use this specific
system called send or receive.
It doesn't matter.
You are using them in the client
side or in this server side,
so you can use it in any processes
because you have a live connection
and each part of the connection
can send or receive messages.
In the UDP, the sender only sends two and so.
That's another difference by
the UDP in the UDP.
You send two in the sender process
and in the receiver process
you have received from.
But here for the, uh.
TCP has send or receive and both are
part of the connection can do that.
So here is the uh server
part in the server part.
You see here these lines of code
is just after accepting the call.
So after accepting the call,
the return is a new socket,
so you can simply say that I'm
going to receive a message.
Found this new Socket II.
Will explain why we need a new socket.
And this is an empty buffer
to receive the message.
Because this new socket is from this client,
you are receiving the
message from the client.
And then the server simply prints out
the message from the client and then
the server sends the message back to
the client using this new socket.
So you see,
here receiving the message from the client,
sending the message to the client.
In the client you do the same.
In the client you send the message.
And then you received the reply
from the server. What is the order?
When you do the next.
At the server part,
the accept received your call.
So now you have the connection.
Then you send the message.
The server received your message.
Then the server sends a reply.
And then you receive the reply here.
You see the order you send the receiver
receives it reply back and then in
the client you receive the reply.
So let's do that in our program so.
I'm going to stop this. I'm going to.
Go to the last part you see.
Here we accept the call.
We are giving a new socket and
using this new socket we can
communicate with the client.
So we need a buffer message to put
the message of the Klein inside that
we call the system called receive.
Receiving the message from this new socket.
Uh, and this is the content of
the message from the client.
And then we print out the clients messages
and then we reply back hello back.
Just a very simple communication.
And then I build this one.
And also in the client part.
The client part. The same we.
Connect so we dialed the server.
If it returns,
it means that we are connected.
And then if you're connected,
we start communicating.
So we need a buffer.
We put our message inside
that for reply we send hello.
But the difference here in the
client part is that we are
using the same client socket.
So in the client part only one
socket is going to be used.
But in the server a.
The accept returns and new
socket for that client.
Send a hello and then we wait
for a reply from the server.
When we received the message from the server,
we put it inside this buffer.
And then we cleaned the reply of the server.
Let's build the client part as well.
So now I'm going to start the server.
And. Inside our clients.
I'm going to just simply clear
and then run the client program.
And also this is the second client.
So. So here when I send hello,
this server receives the hello and
then printed out and then reply to
me hello back and I received the
hello back from the server and I
printed out the reply from the server.
The second a client also
do the same, so hello.
Sends the hello to the server and prints
out the reply in the client part.
So you see here.
We send hello and the server
receives the hello print out
our message and then reply back
hello back and we printed out
their reply from the server.
This is a very simple
communication between 2.
In clients, multiple clients
and a single server.
So just a quick summary or a quick recap.
At the client part of the TCP communication.
We called the soccer system
called to ask for a socket.
We optionally so this is optional.
We optionally combined a IP port,
or we can leave it to the kernel.
We know what is the server address.
We connect to that address.
And if the connection this system
called returns a nonzero number,
meaning that we are connected to
the server and after that we use
send or receive to send messages or
receive messages from this server.
In the server part.
Again, we asked for a socket.
We bind an IP port for this process.
This is mandatory because all the other
clients are going to use this IP port.
Then we tell the kernel that
we are listening and what is
the queue size of the calls.
So you can say that we need
a queue of France 10 size,
meaning that you are able to receive
10 calls at a time and then you can
start addressing or picking each call.
You do that by the accept system called,
meaning that you you want to answer
the first call. You do another,
except to accept the second code and etc.
And inside the accept system
called you can pass an empty
variable for the client address.
When the kernel gives you the
first call from the first client,
it fills out the address of the client.
You can check the client address.
Sometimes you may not want to
answer a specific client called.
You can simply drop the message.
But if you want to do the communication,
you can receive the message from the
client or you can send back some
replies and this sender receives
can go forever as long as you do,
they receive and sending this connection
is alive and as you can see here,
based on the order of the
sending and receiving,
the clients receive the messages in order.
Also in the client part.
Based on the receive or send system,
called,
the server receives the messages in order.
Because we use,
the sender receives system calls in order
the message is going to be ignored.
And because we have a live connection,
it is a reliable communication.
So any questions?
I think now you have the
knowledge to do the lab 11,
so the lab 11 needs you too.
I do a communication based on TCP IP.
So now you know what to do
in the server part and what
you do in the client part.
I already explained all of
these in the lab manual two so.
The main a part of the accept system called
is the magic of returning in new socket.
So why so far? There was only one
socket for the client or for the sender
part in the UDP and one socket in
the receiver part or in this server?
The main difference of this server in the
TCP IP in the TCP communication is that the
accept system called returns a new socket.
So as you can see here in the
client we are using the same client
socket that we already asked in
the first step in the client part.
But in the server they accept returns
a new socket and use that new socket
for communication with that client.
The logically actually is a.
Makes sense why? Because in the server?
This service socket is responsible
to just receive the call.
However, you may have because of the
I mean queue size more than zero.
You may have five calls waiting
for your accept. Each called a.
Needs its own socket to provide
a communication.
So if you use this service socket at anytime,
you are limited to only one socket,
so you have to wait for communication with
the first client to be done and then.
Go ahead with the second client
and start making with the second
client using the same socket.
However,
if you have multiple sockets for each client,
you can start communicating
with the clients in parallel.
So here is the picture.
So if you have a queue size
of for instance 5 backlog #5,
it means that your socket is able
to receive five calls at a time.
All the other costs going to be
rejected up until one available spot.
Uh, happen in the queue.
And then when you do the accept
a socket for the first call,
gonna be created for that call
for that client.
Another socket gonna be created for
the second call or second client.
See, it's OK for the third client.
This way it gives you a.
Huge advantage of.
Parallelism you can communicate
with multiple clients at end at
one time using their own socket.
So you can do parallel answering.
How you can do that by using the fork?
So.
At any except when you receive a new socket,
you can do a fork and give that
socket to your child and tell
the child that you go ahead and
communicate with that client.
And then you are free to answer
the second call.
So. Here is the I mean magic
of the accept system called.
It gives you the opportunity
to do a fork and then give each
communication by a client to a child.
Then you have multiple children
to answer multiple clients.
So in order to show this up.
Here is the code.
So basically and except you receive
a new socket for the first client.
You go here. If it is non zero,
meaning that the connection is
provided for you and a new socket
is given to you for that client.
Then you can do a fork.
And check whether you have a child or no.
We already said that if they return a ID,
a PID is zero,
meaning that you are inside the child.
Then you can give that new socket.
To the child part and
ask the child to receive.
The message and send the
message to the client.
So here is actually,
I mean a very similar to this sentence.
Basically, the server says that.
Create a child given birth to
a child and says that he tried
to take care of this client.
Bypassing the new socket and then
the parent the server itself
goes ahead with taking another
call for the second call.
It has a new socket.
Create a new child and gives the second
call to the second child and etc.
So in order to showcase this, uh.
I already updated the coding.
So the coding is called a.
Underline fork so this is a server
process with a four. Possibility.
So here I I simply use the same code.
So I created a child and then if the
PID is zero, meaning that we are
inside the child and then I give,
I passed the new socket to the child
to receive and send the messages.
So let me, uh, field this one.
Intervenors
so as per I mean very similar to
previous version of the server, is down.
I mean, it has a socket descriptor 3
and it is bound to this address and
right now it is waiting for receiving
a call and the backlog number is 5.
So it is able to receive five calls at a
time. So now let's, uh, run the client.
So I rewrote the client part
just to showcase a. The uh.
You can medication with the child.
So I this is very similar to
the previous client. Uh, just?
Clients. 4th I already built that,
so if I run this one basically.
And also this one.
So you see here, that, uh?
Both of them both the clients.
Since hello. So let's run it again.
It is still right.
Just to explain what's going on is that.
The first client.
So the first client is sending hello.
This server created new child and give
the communication to the new child at
the same time the second client sends
connect to the server and sends hello
and the server creating new child.
And then he leaves the communication
to the new child.
So I I write, I just run the first
client and then the second client.
You see that this server,
the two children of the server is sending
hello back to the to these clients
and both the clients are printing
out the required from the server.
You see the parallelism.
At the server we have two
children and the server itself,
so we have free process.
The server itself is waiting
for the third call.
But it has two child.
Two children,
those two children are replying
back to these two clients.
And the server itself is waiting
for another client. That's the
magic of the accept system called.
And this is the best way of
writing this server process.
So basically the server for each
except creates a new child and gives
each communicate the communication
with each client to the child.
And here is the, uh.
Uh, the result of the run that I showed you.
So this way this server is
always ready to pick up a call.
It's not busy with communication.
And they. Children of the server are
dealing with the clients and they
are busy with the communication.
So we are done with for today's lecture
and I'm ready to take your questions.
So about that that.
The number that specific number.
Yes, actually right now you you can't
do the lab 11 uh, that's I mean it.
It was a little bit off sink from the topics
so that's why we extend that lab now.
You can do the lab 11.
Although in the lab manual you
already have all this explanation,
but now it's more easier for
you to do the lab level.
So about this IP address hundred
27001. The thing is that, uh.
The IP addresses as we said has
two parts, sorry, four parts.
Each part is from zero up until 255.
They classify these IP's
into different categories.
For instance, a Class A class's PC and etc.
Some of the classes are special classes,
for instance those that are started with 197.
Something ***. These IP addresses are not
going to be routed inside the Internet.
So I'm not going to talk about this.
You can learn about this in
the computer network course,
but one of these top I mean IPS
is this number 120, seven, 001.
This is called. Localhost.
IP or as you said look back IP meaning that.
Any computer.
Any computer based on the.
TCP IP protocol.
Have at least one IP, even if that,
even if that computer doesn't have any
physical connection with other computers.
We assign a default IP
address to that computer.
So this is a default IP address to any
computer based on the TCP IP protocol.
And that address is this
address under twenty 7001.
If you if any process.
Inside a computer,
once to communicate using this IP address.
It is meaning that that process is
communicating with its own computer.
That's why we call it look back or localhost.
Why we want to communicate from one process?
Inside a computer with another
process inside the same computer,
using the loop pad or localhost IP.
That's the topic of next week.
Using the network IPC inside the same
computer as an alternative for IPC.
So next week we will explain that why a
process wants to communicate with another
process inside the computer inside the
same computer using TCP IP protocol.
And in order to do that,
we can use this IP as a loop back.
So it's kind of a self network IPC.
So that's the I mean that is specific.
Or I mean kind of special IP for any
computer based on the TCP IP protocol?
And next week or we are going to
explain what's the advantage of that?
Just as a hint, it's an alternative for IPC.
And I'll explain it next week,
yeah?
So we have a question from ISOC.
Did you ever mention that you have
to use the results from except to
communicate with the connected client?
That was something that took me
awhile to figure out when I was
working on it a few nights ago.
Yes. So basically as I said,
that's the magic of the accept,
so they accept returns
a new socket descriptor.
And you have to use that new socket
descriptor for communication.
So let's back to this example.
So you see, here we accept.
Returns. A number and that number
is a new socket descriptor.
And in order to communicate with that
client that you just accept the code,
you have to use that new socket.
So each connection has its own socket
descriptor and you have to use that
socket descriptor to communicate.
You should not use this server socket
for communication with the client.
Yeah. That was the, uh, uh?
Kind of trick. Another trick,
actually, that's the magic
of the access system called.
So let's back to the access system called.
So.
Yes here. Uh, they accept system called
returns is socket or file descriptor.
If it is OK. If it is minus one,
it means that there is a
problem with that connection.
And you have to use this returned socket
descriptor to communicate with the client.
Yes, I mean, uh. Yes you can.
It's a variable so you can
put any name for that.
But yes, I mean a better name
would be client socket descriptor.
But again this is a client socket
descriptor inside this server process.
Different from this one. So you can call it.
For instance, you can call it a.
Server. Clients.
Socket descriptor many dot.
Uh, this is a socket assigned by the
server for this client for communication.
This is a better name server
client socket descriptor.
OK, so if there is no question, uh?
Why I will upload the code for
the server with or without the
fork and also declined parts?
So I I really suggest you to read
the code and run the code and.
Feels are the parallel execution
of the communication by the
server through the children.
OK, so I'm going to stop the.